# The challenge of write sustainable code 

Projects that start from scratch offer the opportunity to choose which tools and technology to use. Programming at this stage feels fast and exciting, similar to what you see in movies. Everything is happiness.

However, typically as time goes by the enthusiasm and speed of development wanes. The addition of new features becomes more and more complex, when analyzing these previous functionalities to try to understand them, the code becomes difficult to read, and when the new functionalities are implemented they end up breaking previous functionalities. Not everything is happiness anymore. Even the situation can reach such a point that sometimes it seems a better idea to throw everything away and start the project from scratch again.

**The main reason this happens is that maintaining code, whether your own or someone else's, is a challenge, and that challenge is not easy.**

The author points out that when he receives the team's request to throw everything away and start from 0 again, he asks the following question: "What will be done differently next time to avoid being the next year in the same situation of wanting to rewrite everything from scratch?"

Frequently the responses received can be grouped into 2:

* new technology
* more architecture.

In order with his expert opinion, these two options are not solutions to the real problem, since they only add more complexity and do not address the real problem that led them to that situation; **the degeneracy of the code**.

To address the problem of code degeneracy, 3 questions are posed:

* How does the code degenerate?
* When does the degeneracy of the code occur?
* How to prevent the code from degenerating?

# How does the code degenerate?
* Accidental complexity.
* Code that does not reflect the language of the domain in which the software operates.
* Code that is not explicitly written to be easily understood.

# When does the degeneracy of the code occur?
The degeneration of the code is a process that occurs gradually, it is not something that goes from 0 to 100 in one step, which is why this happens in basic and daily decisions, for example, such as the selection of variables, abstractions and location of classes, etc

# How to prevent code from degenerating?
The short answer to this question is: writing sustainable code. But, **how do you write sustainable code?**

1. Tests
2. Representing business logic
3. KISS


## 1 - Test
To write tests that help us have sustainable code, there are 2 indicators that are sought to be achieved
* Coverage
* Quality

### Coverage
when talking about coverage, it means that you want to cover the written code

### Quality
Writing tests with code coverage is not enough, it is essential that they be of quality. And in this case, quality is defined as a test that is coupled to the requirement but decoupled from the implementation.

## 2 - Representing business logic
The terms and concepts must be abstracted into the code with the intention of being able to reflect the business logic, for this it is useful to create data types that do so in favor of it.

On the other hand, it is recommended to use primitive and built-in data types to interact with third-party software layers, such as the graphical interface, the database, sending a JSON to an API, etc.

## 3 - KISS 
KISS is "keep it simple". It is recommended to write code in such a way that it is easy for the reader to understand what is going on there. that is why it is said to “maintain a noticeable and very explicit intention in each line of code written”.
