# What is meant by “Software Testing”?

Software Testing is understood as a group of techniques that are used to verify if the product meets the established requirements. 

It is important to notice that the promise of software testing is not a product free of bugs, **the promise is to provide objective and independent information about the quality of the product.**

“Quality” is understood as that characteristic that occurs when the functionality of the product matches the established requirements. 

## Classification of the tests

the **“execution mode”** and the **“focus”** are two variables used for group tests

When we talk about “execution mode” we have:
* Manual Tests
* Automatic Tests

When analyzing the "focus" of the tests: 
* Functionals Tests
* Non-functionals Tests

### Manual - Automatic 

Manual tests are those that are executed by a human, while automated tests are those that are executed by a computer.

The manual tests are utils for improving the user experience. On the other hand, the automatic tests allow us to scale in the app without losing the confidence that a new implementation breaks previous functionalities 

### Functionals - Non-functionals

Functional tests focus on **what** actions are performed or should be performed.


Examples of _Functionals tests_
* Unit tests
* Integration tests 
* End-to-end tests
* Regression tests 

Non-functional ones focus on examining **how** the system responds.

Examples of _Non-functionals tests_
* Load tests
* Speed tests
* Usability tests
* Safety tests

## Conclusion 

Following what is understood as software testing, it can be stated that if we are interested in a quality product it is essential to have software testing in it.
